Note: Note that the only really complete section is the introduction and that the rest is still a work in progress.

“I Agree to Disagree”: An Incomplete Analysis of the Israeli-Palestinian War
By Ness Uskert

Introduction

	The planet is descending into chaos, yet society cannot agree on what that chaos is. With the overlapping of various cultures and ideologies, which have permeated throughout our world since the early 1000s, globalization and technology have rapidly developed, changing our planet’s political, economic, and social atmosphere. However, because of this rapid change, there is a lack of definition behind human identity: if we cannot understand the changing world around us, we fail to understand ourselves. Perspective, understood as the driving force of action through Iris Marion Young’s essay, Responsibility and Global Justice: A Social Connection Model, is shaped by upbringing, community, family, genetics, culture, and pre-life history, heavily influencing identity by informing our understanding of the world, others, and ourselves. In turn, our perspective causes us to have certain behaviors, thoughts, feelings, and experiences, which from our understanding of the world and others, we use to understand ourselves. Our perspective is essentially a two-way mirror: we look out at the world to look inward, and look inward to look out at the world. But when the world keeps changing, and when we must keep changing with it, our identity becomes fragmented and ungrounded, leading to negative effects on our mental stability.
	This ungroundedness, which is subliminal as most people don’t have awareness of it, is causing us to fight amongst ourselves, to blame each other, to attach fault to our actions, and to morally shun one another. As humans, we have always found conflict, but now, we are in a new phase of human life centered around computers and globalizing technology. We are no longer fighting solely because of the old religions, we are fighting because of the new religions: media and technology. However, the story is still the same, we shed blood to maintain power, control, and wealth over whatever institution rules the people – we fight to control whatever the people worship. So now, instead of solely God, the powerful have manufactured Hollywood, Silicon Valley, Wall Street, and other industries to promote unhealthy relationships between society and their products, forming addictions, harming communities, and becoming an indignant tumor growing in the heart of society, tearing people apart. Advertisement and consumerism have overcome Western society, and the people who created the industries did not prepare any way to fix the negative side-effects. The citizens who were not checked by the government have grown too powerful, and now the whole system is falling apart.
As humans, what we need to do is survive. We, before civilization, did that by sticking to different tribes. We formed packs to hunt, eat, drink, sleep, procreate, and battle off predators. We also battled against others of our same species and genus to try and keep ourselves alive: Homo sapiens became the main genus after killing off the others, and thousands of years later we developed into creatures that began to barter and trade. We developed agriculture, then civilizations and cities. We began to cooperate with each other to take over more territory, instead of becoming confined to singular villages and towns. However, our old animalistic, survivalist behavior still existed, and we saw the other tribes’ evolutions as threats. As Amy Chua explains in her book, Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations, even today, in a world connected by civilization and politics, the color of our skin, sex, gender, sexuality, and other grouping factors divide us, because it is hard for our species to be alive without belonging to a group. On top of our tribal nature, we have an individual ambition to survive, which we believe can only happen if we are the best – the fittest to survive. In many cultures, the development of less powerful members of a community was shunned by those at the top of the hierarchy, as seen in the Caste system and the modern class system. People want whatever or whoever they are associated with to thrive at the fullest capacity: they want to be the richest, the most powerful – whatever else makes them the best, specific to their culture. But in a world where we have access to many different technologies, we do not need to be the fittest anymore – we need to evolve past our existence as a creature still attached to animalistic hostilities and the negative aspects of tribalism.
Our tribal nature has divided us up into different local and global cultures, into even smaller separations such as what food we like, what we want, what we have, what language we speak, what family we belong to, and other such sub cultures. As humans, remaining so attached to this narrow perspective that drives us to be the best is hindering our progress. However, we can overcome our nature by simply being self-aware of ourselves. Yet, no matter how many of those in the West’s middle class, or lower class, gain an understanding of their natural instincts (whether ambitions to be the best or other such desires), if corporate billionaires and tech-conglomerats do not gain self-awareness, and stop hoarding the wealth that makes people powerful, then the world will not be a place for everyone, but instead only for those who have power. I am not proposing an abolishment of Capitalism for Western cultures, or an even harder lean into Communism for the East, I believe that every culture’s economical or government ideology should have space to flourish. I propose that we should find a way to exist with these different systems: instead of disagreeing with another person on what they are doing or how they are living, we have to agree that there is no one right way to function as a human. We have to have diplomacy to allow everyone to get what they want. We have to attach ourselves not just to one group, or even many, but any we encounter, not by joining necessarily, but by understanding that there is no one truth, so we can understand and accept each other. The solution concerns reforming the ideas taught to us at birth, or rather changing the ideas taught to future generations, to help them connect with each other. Right now, we are not achieving this connection because of our own inability to deal with how far we have already evolved. The overlapping cultures and the confusing, ever-changing world we live in leaves us uncertain of how to perceive, and how to think.
A natural human response to uncertainty of oneself is to lean further into one’s tribal nature, to attach one’s identity to a belief, a celebrity, a piece of media, or something else (that could potentially be used to control one’s actions). Through their attachment, people become stuck to rigid systems of belief, idolatry, culture, and various social constructs. There is a widespread variety of things people can attach themselves to: other humans like Taylor Swift and Stephen King; shows like Stranger Things; albums like Hit Me Hard and Soft; and ideologies that stem from culture, large military conflicts and arguments concerning worldly constructs. However, because in our modern day-and-age, where our attachments can be very polar, and there is no legislative punishment for disagreement within a community in the West, communities themselves become polarized, and blame, fault, and moral shaming can plague families, best friends, institutions, and people who should be connected. One’s identity might cause them to be attached to a group of people halfway across the world, while another’s identity might lead them to be attached to the other’s enemy, even if they live across the hall from each other. And so, the tribal aspect of human nature is changing, because the tribes have been smashed together to form a hot pot in which there are many rights, many wrongs, and seemingly no truth, and we are beginning to belong to tribes with contradicting ideologies. Moreover, if our tribes contradict themselves, we develop many polarizing attachments within ourselves that lead us to become even further ungrounded. For example, if one has a Western ideology ingrained within them, but also a potentially polarizing Eastern ideology, our identity is at risk of becoming shattered, and we are at risk of trying to find more things to attach our identity to to make ourselves whole. Once we find whatever makes us feel whole, no matter our intelligence or esteem, if we don’t have the self-awareness to understand our perspective, we might become hostile and aggressive towards ideologies we don’t agree with. We might intensely defend our beliefs (ourselves) against people who disagree with us, with words or violence, because of the emotion we possess attached to those very beliefs. So we connect ourselves to ideologies of our world so deeply that anything outside of one’s realm of belief might be met with intense disagreement, so one does not feel that their identity is fractured. It is a ruthless cycle: external disagreement creates disagreement within the self.
I argue that to disagree without aggression and conflict, we must separate belief from identity – what someone says, from who they are – and attempt to understand others’ perspectives with respect and empathy. Disagreement creates conflict because of the fault attached to it – fault that implies people might not be doing the best thing they can and should do in their society. People then believe that if they are wrong, especially about beliefs related to their core being, their identities and their perspective are flawed, which upsets their understanding of their place in the world. However, if we understand from the get-go that any understanding we have might have flaws to it, we can move forward through any conflict, together. We can believe in absolute things, we can believe in many moralities, we can believe in competition, supremacy, terrible things, beautiful things – but we don’t have to anchor them to our identity in the sense that we do negative things to protect our understanding of ourselves because of what we believe in. I am suggesting that there should be a separation made between how those act and what they feel. Evolutionarily, we have had tribes and beliefs associated with those tribes to survive, but without a need for tribalism anymore, we now need, instead of agreement, the ability to disagree, so we can move forward as a species, and understand the larger understanding that all understandings are valid. We should hold all perspectives in high regard. We do not have to agree, but we also do not have to fault others, until our survival is on the line. That becomes the tricky part, to understand the degrees to which we can disagree.
I propose to analyze the Israeli-Palestinian conflict as a case study to try and figure out the answer, because the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is one deeply entrenched in disagreement and conflict. If we can figure out how to disagree on one of the most heatedly discussed conflicts today, we can disagree on anything, and overcome this hurdle in human evolution. I will interview different people connected to the conflict, read sources to understand history and the culture of the conflict, read different moral arguments and apply them to the conflict, and overall have a comprehensive understanding, so I can debunk and promote perspectives to show that each perspective is valid and that any individual has a truth to add to the world. To block out this essay, in Section 1, I will lay out my understanding of the war, through my own narrative, understanding of facts, and ideologies. I will show how I believe we can present ideas in a positive way, so that people can practice overcoming any attack they feel was made against their identity. I will then, in Section 2, after writing the perspective I developed from my own position related to the conflict, analyze specific individual’s understanding of the war and narratives I have read from books to elaborate on more perspectives. I will show how each idea can disagree with each other in a way that respects each opinion, by understanding why people possess them. In Section 3, I will transition to the philosophical aspect of the paper, and analyze government, perspective, truth, culture and identity to delve into the nuances of my proposition. Finally, in the conclusion I will restate how all of this back and forth shows that everyone disagrees about something, but we cannot let what it is we are disagreeing about fuel us to hate each other, with regard to some exceptions. I will talk about the meta aspects of my paper, including how my own perspective shifted, what I did incorrectly in the process of writing, and how one can have empathy for me, in case they disagree with my ideas, by analyzing the foundations of my perspective and understanding.

Section 1: My Interpretation of the Conflict

There is so much to take into account here: political, societal, psychological, nationalistic, moral, cultural, ethnical, constructual, gender-based, sex-based, sexuality-based, religious, scientific, territorial, organizational, governmental, and technological concepts. And, I have to understand how to interpret these concepts from my own frame of reference, and then interpret that frame of reference based on what I know about society, or think I know. Further, I have to understand the accuracy of what I write. But because of the ability to understand I may or may not have, which stems from the access to necessary data I may not have, which then upsets my understanding and in turn your understanding, I may not be able to have any actual ability to understand. However, if this logic applies to me, it applies to everyone who has not read every single treatise on Earth. There are many contrivances to how I can interpret the conflict of Israel and Palestine, many back-and-forths I may attempt to go down, but no matter what I do, and what I say, there will always be push-back, especially with a case like this one. So, before I even get to my opinion, first, I want to elucidate the general facts of the war before explaining the narrative. However, even the facts can be contested, as nothing is truly absolute. The most important thing surrounding the arguments, is not truth, or broken law, but identity, as identity and perspective shapes a lot of opinions on the conflict. Further, I will only go so far to share my perspective, so as not to overly shape your truth; I remind you, as a reader, you never have to take anything as the absolute truth, including what I am writing in this paper. My understanding is only what it is because of the people whom I have talked to and the sources I have read; however, while I will cite where I get my information from, I will not critique myself until the section that surrounds counter-arguments.
To begin, on October 7th, the general consensus reports that around 1200 Israeli people died during the invasion. Further, 251 hostages were originally taken. Since October 7th, according to the Gaza Ministry of Health over 73,000 Palestinians have died; whereas, The Times of Israel has reported 895 soldier deaths. The UN states that there is a genocide, and an ethnic cleansing happening in Israel. BDS supposes that there is also apartheid and settler colonialization. Further, Benjamin Netanyahu, the prime minister of Israel, has attempted to take an authoritarian rule of power, while the charter of Hamas, a terrorist organization backed by Iran and Qatar, supports the extermination of Israel as a country, and the death of all Jews. Just these few “basic facts” are being hotly contested in these conflicts, as these facts differ based on who is reporting them.
To now take these facts and turn them into a story, here is my understanding of the conflict. Of course, the more recent start of the world’s focus on Israel began on October 7th, a day that destroyed Israel and Gaza’s sense of safety. I believe that the date, 08/07, October 7th, is now as infamous as December 7th or 9/11; however, though the war started with the world on Israel’s side, quickly after Israel began to decimate Gaza and kill many Palestinians, the understanding of right and wrong became muddled. Even people not directly attached to the conflict became quite violent with their opinions surrounding the oppressor and oppressed, victim and perpetrator, around the world. Protests in major universities sparked headlines, and a war of ideology mirrored the actual war occurring in Gaza. My mom’s side of my family engaged in a lot of discussion on the topic, and I engaged in debate with my friends about the issue. At first, I heavily sided with Israel. I believed that they had been wronged, and they were just protecting their own citizens. I thought that they were doing what they must do to fight a war, without understanding the other political nuances that corrupted the story. It was in the early stages of the war that many crafted their understandings (consciously or unconsciously), and since then, I believe that people have remained steadfast in their opinion, with a minority shifting their beliefs. I constantly have shifted my beliefs, almost as a thought experiment – to explore the nature of truth by shifting what is true in my mind. I have asked myself questions ranging from, “Should Israel do whatever it takes to defeat Hamas?” to “Should Israel have been created in the first place?” Whatever belief people hold, if they hold on to it steadfastly, it is a part of their identity that they will not let go of, which leads to conflict inside and outside the war.
My understanding of the war concerns the modern-day responses and reactions to the conflict; these responses are divided into different groups: those living through the war, those associated with the war but having the luxury to be safe from conflict, and those living outside the war who attach themselves to the conflict. Everyone has different political, social, and cultural understandings, and the categories that these understandings are attached to explain a lot about an individual's understanding and the place the war has within identity. In Section 2 I will categorize these groups of understanding outside my own interpretation. My understanding heavily concerns others’ understandings; it is through them that I developed my belief in neutrality and conflict aversion. To understand why I maintain neutrality and the exceptions to my neutrality, I think it is important for me to share my historical understanding of the conflict, so you know where my ideas come from and where we disagree. If we understand where we disagree historically, which I argue is a large foundation of our current beliefs, we can figure out our definitions concerning the issue, what we think is important, and how to realize why we disagree so heavily, instead of engaging in violent conflict just because we disagree.
Though I have researched a lot on this topic, I still find it hard to piece together all the necessary information. But before I even dive into unpacking the many issues, I want to explain why I think it is important to look at history. History is extremely important to understanding the perspectives surrounding a conflict, because history in many cases can be interpreted as a collective narrative made up of the many memories people that lived through the time period possessed. So, of course, when there are multiple sides in a conflict, typically broken down into oppressor, oppressed, the external-to-the-conflict parties, and neutral parties, there are different narratives that arise. For example, in World War II, historians usually focus on European Theater, Pacific Theater, Jewish suffering, Russian suffering, or more narratives, without piecing together a whole concise history of just the events. When writing on these conflicts that are emotionally charged, because they are connected to identity, the different perspectives on the conflict show up in different narratives and interpretations. There is never a complete guide to any conflict unafflicted with bias, and therefore any text and narrative written on a conflict usually becomes muddled with observation, instead of pure fact. I will explain more on this in the moral section of the paper, but essentially the historical aspect and understanding one has on a conflict matters, because it serves as memory that influences present decisions. So, when a BDS protestor and an Israeli meet, they can get into heated arguments, because the basic observations they both form conflict, and the definitions of their arguments contradict. However, not many people know to look at the basic foundation of an argument, and not many people attempt to engage in conversation instead of conflict, and so these conflicts end up worsening. So, that is why there are such different reactions formed, because there is a whole system of interpretation that connects to fundamental understanding and basic observation and perception of the world, which is influenced by where one lives, the knowledge they intake, family dynamics, and more. In conclusion I will talk more about how we can understand these different observations, but right now I am going to explain my understanding of the history of the conflict, which I, for now, categorize as a liberal Americans perspective. However, as will become present in the later paragraphs, this Palestinian-Israeli conflict almost destroys the ability for me to properly categorize myself, because of how this conflict divides liberal culture. The people who support one side, or another, often do not have any of the same other values, such as liberal Jews and conservatives, or liberal Americans and the Muslim leaders (not leaders who acknowledge Israel), who promote Sharia law. I will write about Israeli history, and then the Palestinian history, as best I can.
I read two texts on Israeli history, and one text on Arabic history. I read Noa Tisbhy’s leftist Israeli book, Israel: A Simple Guide to the Most Misunderstood Country on Earth (yes, I also think it is a provocative title, but she has her reasons for that), and I also read Israel: A Concise History of a Nation Reborn, by Daniel Gordis. For the ease of referring to both books, I will refer to Tishby’s as Israel: A Simple Guide, and Gordis’ as Israel: A Concise History. The first thing I want to say about my understanding of Israeli history, is that I a) connect it with Jewish history, and b) am unsure about many things, no matter how much reading I do. For one, it is hard for me to come to a conclusion about how and when the Jews came to be. The texts I read to understand the history presented me with a timeline of the creation of the religion, but in relation to the Torah, as well as “fact.” So, here is the first split of narrative: a split between the Jewish understanding of the old history, the academic perspective, as well as common understanding. I am a Jew and a Catholic, who while not strongly attached to the Bible and religion, do sing in choir and church, and occasionally participate in Saturday Jewish services at my synagogue, B’nai Jeshurun in New York City. As a liberal in America, I am inclined to rely on more secular sources, however, just because a lot of the information provided in Israel: A Concise History was biblical, and some of Israel: A Simple Guide as well, does not mean that I should discount it. When trying to understand perspectives, we have to take everything into account, even if they are words from an old dusty book. I am cross-referencing with Britannica when I am writing the perspective I gleaned from both books, and hope the historical information presented fulfills your educational needs. However, even if it isn’t entirely accurate, I personally don’t think that matters (more on that in Section 3).
	There is so much to cover; however, this essay is not about the history of Judaism, the Jews, and Israelis, it is about disagreement – it just uses the current day conflict as a case study to understand how we can disagree better. The old history matters for the aforementioned reasons; But instead of taking you step-by-step through a complete timeline, which everytime I sat down to write gave me a headache to think about, I have a more simple explanation of events, people and groups, and concepts affecting the people. Simply, Judaism all started long ago (biblically with Abraham), but whether or not he was real, it began around 4000 years ago in the 20th-18th century BCE. Soon, Judaism evolved and developed traditions, beliefs, and gained a following. In the Torah, the story transitions from Abraham to his son Isaac, to settlement in Canaan (modern day Israel and Lebanon, although, this can even be debated), to enslavement in Egypt, to freedom once more with Moses, to movement back into Israel, to the development of the 12 Israeli tribes, or the 2 tribes of the Kingdom of Judea and the 10 tribes of the Kingdom of Israel, to exile from the Assyrians and Babylonians (and the dispersion of the larger Kingdom of Israel), to revolts for freedom, to eventual defeat by the Romans around the time of Christ, and to suffering in the diaspora for two thousand years, until the Jews returned to their proclaimed homeland. There are both truths and unknowns concerning this narrative – most importantly, are the historical unknowns that are religious truths. Such as celebrating Passover, and the return from Egypt, is very important to Jews religiously and culturally, because it created a sense of hope for return to their homeland, which a lot of the religion was founded upon. Apart from religious truths, what I know to be true historically surrounding this, academically, is the creation of the tribes and borders in 1500 BCE, eventual kingdomship and unification of the twelve tribes between 1030 BCE to 928 BCE, the creation of the First Temple in Jerusalem in 930 to 970 BCE, and so on. While the Israelites were living there, there was a lot of cultural movement and swaps of power. The Assyrian Empire conquered Israel in 722 BCE, then the Babylonian kingdom, then the Persian Empire, all sweeping through the region in which the Israellites were dwelling. Then, importantly, toward the end of the Jewish kingdom’s rule, the Greeks came in 332 BCE and took over, and then the Romans came in 63 BCE and took over. All in all, through all this land conquering and power swapping, the Jews had on and off ruling of the land. The Jews cycled through their power as these cultures came through. Historically, the Jews inhabited the land before all of these other cultures, but that doesn’t mean they owned the land, or had any more right to it then other cultures. What ends up happening, especially between these different tribes who did not have the technology like we do today, which could allow them to survive, is that whoever ends up getting the right to land and territory, is the culture with the most power. Further, on the topic of this history, while all these Jews were inhabiting Israel, they possessed different leadership. Beginning with a monarchy, King Solomon and King David, all the way to the Jewish dynasty of the Hasmoneans from 167 to 37 BCE. The Hasmoneans led a revolt in 167 BCE, breaking free from the Greek grasp. This is where the fabled Hanukkah story comes from.
	There is a lot more of this history; however, I think that this brief overview of the original history is enough to understand why it is important that Israel has a country today. This logic can also be applied to the Palestinians. The Israelis who live in Israel currently, are part of the culture of Jews. And the Jews, they desired for millenia to return back to their home, that was their whole aspiration as a people. That natural humans want to have a home is universal, and should be rewarded to those who desire one. The Jews are a unique case: they had possession of a land four-thousand years ago, though they lost their rule over the land. However, that land is ingrained in their religion and people as extremely important – belonging anywhere else apart from that land would be hard for many of those Jews. In fact, in the 1800s and 1900s, returning before God gave them back the land was difficult for many Jews, because they wanted their return to the land of Israel to be perfect. So, it is in the Jewish blood to have a nation – and many desire for that nation to be the same one as in the Torah. Even Jews living outside Israel still look to the land for hope, I know I do. So, that is one aspect of the Jewish people and history that makes this conflict so difficult, what the land means to their people.
However, the land also meant a lot to the people of many national identities living in the land before the Jews returned. While the region had no country or independence until 1948, as it was a colony of the Ottomans, then of Britain, the Arabs living in the land developed homes and families. After World War II, while there is more to the story than just this statement, the Jews had a chance to thrive in the land, while many of the Palestinians did not, because of different wealth barriers and education barriers. Some might argue that Palestine should have had a chance to thrive on its own, without negative interference from the West. Although, the Jews needed a home as well, and could not live so divided anymore. And, though there are many problems with how the Jews emigrated, it happened, and we can’t keep fretting on about the past. However, we can look in more detail at how the Jews did emigrate to Israel, to uncover why it meant so much to them. If we can understand the emotion behind the Jews actions, and soon the Palestinians, we can hope to become more empathetic to the situation, and stop disagreeing with such violence.
	Most of the time the Jews spent in the diaspora, after Roman expulsion until World War II, was characterized by suffering, oppression, and separation from their homeland and people, but also the hope that they would be unified once more. It was not until the early 1800s that this movement to return home began to flourish, under the name Zionism. Before I talk about Zionism, it is important to note that there are many different understandings of the movement depending on cultural association. This fact is important because it ties into why definitions are so important. The foundational disagreement surrounding Zionism and the conflict that arises from the movement relates to different ideas – fueled by different emotional attachments and such – surrounding what the movement actually was, and what it became. When trying to understand movements that happened a long time ago, we can misinterpret how a definition is used based on how it has changed over time, and what it has developed to mean for some people. There is always a right for people to interpret definitions like these in whatever manner they want; however, it is important to understand how movements like these developed, and for what reasons, so how they are defined can be done so in a light that does not criticize the people associated with the movement. Having historical empathy for what a person or group did is important, so we do not start fights with that same person and group today, who believe different things than what they did in the past. While Zionism might have had roots tied into colonialism, that does not invalidate the right for Israel to exist as a state completely, just as it does not remove the right for the United States, and many European countries to exist. We can criticize those roots while understanding that the movement was not founded in those principles, just the means to achieve the movement in the past. So, while Zionism may have created a nation-state where another nation was already existing, the Jews alive today are not all the same as Theodore Herzl, the leader of Zionism, and have the same liberal ideologies as many of the critics of the state of Israel. If we can get a clear understanding of what Zionism is, as well as what colonialism is, what apartheid is, and the historical foundations of those events, we can separate what happened a long time ago from what is happening now, and develop new, more nuanced understandings of our own political and cultural landscape. We can, at the very least, attempt to understand Zionism in the way another person might, in hopes that when criticizing or debunking Zionism (or anything), it will result in less conflict, because if you criticize with a view that takes into account another person’s history, and separates events throughout time, I theorize that conversation will go over much better. 
Anyways, to further describe how we came to this conflict, Zionism was a movement created by the man who I named dropped just a few sentences ago, Theodor Herzl. Zionism was further influenced by Jewish revolutionaries of the then past, such as Leon Pinsker and Moses Hess, and influenced by Jewish revolutionaries of the then present, such as poet Chaim Nachman Bailik, and other contemporaries. Each of them helped create the movement that was known as Zionism. The purpose of this movement was both political and biblical: the Jewish revolutionaries wanted to escape from European anti-semitism and anti-Judaism, and the new ideologies of race and “impure” blood, and also, they thought it was time for the Jews to return to their prophesized homeland. So, after a lot of work, after rounds of immigration to the region in the 1800s, early settlement, hard to get negotiations with the Ottoman Empire, negotiations with the British in the Balfour Declaration, the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine, which did not work, and then the British Mandate for Palestine, Israel finally was founded in the decolonization movement after World War II, on May 14th, 1948. However, Jordan, Egypt, Lebanon, Iran, Iraq, and other such countries in the Middle East were not happy about the new country being formed – it was at this point the previous tension between Judaism and Islam turned into a full conflict between actual countries, instead of a conflict between the different ideologies. On the day of Israel’s founding, began the first war that Israel had to participate in, and the violence has not stopped since.
Now, it is time to delve into Palestinian history. I will not spend as much time delving into the old history, as the old history was not completely religious. But it still is important to understand the Muslim religion. There are five pillars of Islam, divided into Shahada (faith), Salah (prayer), Zakat (almsgiving), Sawm (fasting), and Hajj (pilgrimage). Just as Judaism has the major holidays of Passover, and Hannukah, and celebrates the return to their homeland, Islam has Eid, a fasting holiday, and celebrates returning to Mecca and Medina, as well as celebrating the very religiously important city, Jerusalem. Islam has their bible, the Quran, as well as their law, the Sharia law. The religion is divided into Sunni and Shia, and has different branches such as Sufism. The Palestinian people were Arabs living in the region of Palestine under the Ottoman empire, who had developed various national identities and peoplehoods. There is a lot of disagreement on where the Palestinian people originate from. Some people connect Palestinians and Jews back to ancient Canaanites, and use that as the origin of the genetic peoples. If you noticed, I did not bring this fact up until now, even though technically the Jews could have descended from Canaanites as well. The reason is, is because there is so much disagreement on this fact, and one of the articles I found promoting genetic relationships between Palestinians and other people in the Middle East was actually retracted for political reasons, and poor methodology. The fact is, there is no clear answer to the truth behind the origins of Palestinians and Jews way back 5000-6000 years ago. Even if they did both originate from the Canaanites, they do not share any significant beliefs with them today, and are not the same people. However, whether or not either people were related to the Canaanites, is not important. What is important in this issue is who the new culture and people are. Today’s modern Palestinian culture, I argue, is a relatively new culture that developed through Islam’s impact on the people who were living in the land, and who either stayed there or not. Because of the Palestinian’s connection to Islam, and how the religion changed the people, even if they lived in the land before they converted to Islam, their beliefs are now central to Islam, which significantly changed their identities. Further, there was a lot of movement in the region after the Jews were expelled and the people living there remained. As a Palestinian cannot be understood through simply Islamic terms, like Jews with Judaism, it is harder to track them through the time period after the Muslim Caliphate riled the region from 638-1099 AD. After this occurred, the Crusaders came, then the Mamluks, then the Ottoman Empire. All but the Crusaders were Muslim. So, while I cannot say with certainty where the ancestors of the people currently living in Palestine came from, and whether they were in the region the whole time, I can say that they at least have roots through the Ottoman Empire, and roots dating back to the Muslim Caliphate. However, it does not matter whether or not the Palestinian culture or the Jewish culture developed first, as what matters is an attachment to the land, which both people have.
To explain the importance of the region to the Islamic people, I enlisted the help of the author and professor Rashid Khalidi, his family, and his book The Hundred Years’ War on Palestine: A History of Settler Colonialism and Resistance, 1917-2017. A man named Yusuf Diya al-Din Pasha al-Khalidi, Khalidi’s great-great-great uncle, was (under the Ottoman’s rule) a deputy in Jerusalem, according to the 1876 Ottoman parliament. He sent a letter on March 1, 1895 to Herzl, expressing his grievances about the Jews coming to Palestine. I will not get into the details here, but what is important to note is that two leaders had a back and forth together, and despite differences, they seemed educated enough and esteemed enough to speak with propriety and care for the other person’s wishes. However, of course, the Jews had money from Europe – enough to buy land and develop it better than the Arabs who lived there, so despite there being opposition to their immigration, the Jews came. The difference between Jews and Arabs in the case of their attempts to gain independence for their people, was that the Jews negotiated with the British with money, and the Arabs revolted. Revolution, while a valid attempt to gain independence (as seen with the Haitian Revolution), did not work well against the British, especially when the Ashkenazi Jews had enough wealth and support to develop the land (now, Europe wanted to help them after the tragedy of World War II because of the anti-semitism). There are cases made that the Jews worked the land better than the Arabs ever tried to, but I find that offensive and attribute the Jews economic success more to larger economic and ideological support. It is hard for the other Middle Eastern countries to develop in the same way as Israel, when Israel was Democratic and supported by Capitalism, which supported growth, and not Communism, which stifled interconnectivity. So, in 1936, the Great Arab Revolt occurred, and by 1939, when it ended, the event caused the British to stop wanting to help the Arabs even more. However, they still offered the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine in 1947 to the Arabs living there – however, the leaders did not take it. Israel got most of the land in the partition, while the Muslim leaders got less land, but connection to the sea, which was unfair for the Muslim leaders. So, the Palestinians in the land rejected the mandate, and with support from the other Middle Eastern countries, they waged war against Israel. Israel’s War of Independence, the Palestinian’s Nakba. 
Fortunately for Israel (as they might have been massacred completely if not for winning the war), David Ben-Gurion, the first Prime Minister of Israel, created the IDF and battled against the Arab countries victoriously. Of course, he had support from the European countries who had their own interests in subduing the other Middle Eastern countries. Either way, the 700,000 to 750,000 Palestinians were heavily displaced; today, many pro-Palestinian movements blame Israel for this displacement, calling it the Nakba. However, many pro-Israel supporters do not believe Israel was the primary cause of this displacement, instead attributing it to a Middle Eastern call for the Arabs living in the region to leave their homes so that Israel could be attacked. No matter what actually happened, the fact that so many were displaced is terrible, and we have to acknowledge that the Palestinians were hurt. Whether or not this catastrophe, this Nakba, was the Jew’s fault, or the Palestinian’s fault, it doesn’t matter – what does matter, is that the people suffered. After this war, there has been conflict between Israel and the Arabs, Palestinians, Jordinians, you name it, and for decades. There have been peace treaties, internal assassinations, wars, deaths, celebrations, and so much until October 7th. It wasn’t all bad; however, my paper is about war and conflict, so that is what I have talked about. But now that we have this base opinion, once we understand where it comes from, we can pick at it by analyzing other perspectives, and hopefully get to the root of this disagreement and conflict, even more so then we have just done, and fix it.
Now, I will talk about where this understanding comes from, and the fact that this is just my opinion. When I set out to write this paper, I wanted to be completely neutral to try and explain that anyone could force themselves to understand another person; however, after reading through the different versions of the history, I found myself biased toward Israeli history. So, even though I took the time to understand both histories – and I feel that I would be respectful in a conversation with another reasonable person, even if their perspectives differed from mine – if I were to engage with a non-reasonable person who let themselves react with aggression to my opinions, I don’t know if I would still be so reasonable, because the emotion I feel about the issue touches me close to home. To further explain my background, I am a Caucasian, American Jew and Catholic, who has lived in Los Angeles, San Francisco, New Orleans, and New York City, and even though I assert that all perspectives should be taken into account because they are all part of the truth, I find myself adverse to opinions that vilify Israel, because to me Israel represents a dream for the Jewish people, which should be praised instead of ridiculed. While there have been many terrible Jews, and while Israel has done many terrible things, no one should speak negatively about a whole nation just because of that nation’s faults. In my many conversations with pro-Israeli supporters, some of them are very intensely sided with the country, so much so that it bugs me. There is a way I have heard some of them speak that even incites me, such as when they seem to not take into account the suffering of the Palestinians, instead speaking of the suffering of the hostages; or flat-out badmouth the whole culture of the Gazans. However, even if people talk to me about things I do not believe in, on both sides, I try my best to be as calm and collected as possible, which is what we all need to do. 
Furthermore, I understand how other people might create stereotypes surrounding a culture, which might even have some truth behind them. While Israel was being developed, many leaders of the Zionist movement were mad at the weak European Jews for allowing themselves to live in suffering, for allowing themselves to pity their own existence instead of being strong. So, a new image of a Jew was created within Israel, an image of a strong laborer, a worker who was not afraid to get their hands dirty to create their country. Within the foundation of Israel, there were negative stereotypes surrounding Jews. Many of the same things seen by the Zionist leaders have been seen by people outside the Jewish faith, and a lot of stereotypes have been created. Yet, one self-pitying their suffering and being one-sided isn’t solely a Jewish flaw. Everything at times does that. So, why is the notion created that Jews do this the most, and why is it frowned upon so much? I don’t have an answer, all I know is that we should not allow small things like these, small prejudices surrounding certain people to overcome us when we try to talk about culture. The same applies to the Palestinians. So, while talking rationally and without negatively charged emotions is extremely difficult, if we just watch out for prejudices we make about people that do not relate to an argument we are making, we can form more logically coherent ideas, and actually express what we wanted to say better than before. It is only human to attribute certain behaviors to certain cultures because that may be what we notice, even if there are many other aspects to behavior, speech, and action. The way identity manifests in appearance is extremely important to how we understand one another. However, we cannot keep letting what we see cloud our judgement, and control our future perspective, otherwise we will not properly perceive. We have to not only look with our eyes, but with a sense of understanding and empathy, to try and see past the first layer of a human and culture, to instead see what we might not want to. For me, though sometimes it is scary to live as a Jew in a world where we have been attacked so many times, it is scary for the myriads of other cultures who have also suffered. Instead of focusing on how Islam or Palestine might pose a threat to me and my people, I have to instead observe that whatever they believe about their history and culture has validity. Even if the person I am talking with reacts negatively to me, I have to understand that there are lapses in judgement, and there is a lot more going on underneath the surface of a person, then there is that I can see. The only way for this idea to work, however, is if the Palestinian person who might have the same fears about me as I do them tries to remove their fears like I am. If we keep trying to do this in our current generations, even if we won’t be able to solve the issue because of our own ingrained biases, we might be able to teach the youth how to act in a way of acceptance.
The brain is like a library that stores an incredibly large sum of information in genetic code, memories, and more, so much so that we can never be sure what book of the mind someone is reading from. Your crazy uncle might be reading from his book of trauma during the Thanksgiving family meal when he spouts unreasonable political theory, and your overbearing mother might be reading from her book of protection when she keeps telling you to eat more food, and I might be reading from the book of preconceived beliefs about culture when I use these silly, yet stereotypical examples of how someone’s mind might be working. However, at this point, there comes the question that I must reintroduce: at what point should we respond with aggression to someone, at what point should we not agree to disagree? To answer this loaded question, we have to move to the next section where I will analyze counterarguments to my interpretation, where they could possibly be stemming from, and at what point could these counterarguments become dangerous.

Section 2: Counterarguments from Interviews and Other Perspectives

With so much emotion attached to each possible perspective, the conflict of the war does not only exist in Israel and Gaza on the blood-soaked land, but also in the homes of families, on the streets of cities, and in the interpersonal relations that should not be affected by politics. To determine how to categorize all of these perspectives and understand how they impact each other, I analyzed who was having the different opinions. The most important factors to consider in determining how to categorize perspective are political, ideological, and cultural (age, community, geographical home, nationalism, income, religious etc.) beliefs. Of course, attached to those beliefs are other factors such as self-awareness, intelligence, emotional intelligence, sociability, and sources of information (which do stem from culture at times). I am going to categorize the arguments I analyze in nine categories, based on which side of the argument they support, and political alignment: pro-Israeli Liberal, pro-Israeli Conservative, pro-Israeli unaligned, pro-Palestinian Liberal, pro-Palestinian Conservative, pro-Palestinian unaligned, neutral on the conflict Liberal, neutral on the conflict Conservative, and neutral on the conflict unaligned. There are many different understandings of liberal and conservative, the ones I am sticking too do not (completely) concern any of the ancient history of the Enlightenment or French Revolution, but instead I believe a liberal is a person who is open to changing laws, government, or religion to promote freedom, equality, and justice; while a conservative is a person who may want to promote freedom, equality, and justice, but is not as open to changing tradition. Of course, there are even more variations such as those native to the conflict, or external, but that can be specified as subcategories of each of those categories. These are each of the different possible categories of thought, however there is a lot of overlapping thought, and the people who support the same ideas can come from very different political backgrounds. The reason why this categorization matters so much, is because it provides order to the situation. Without it, we would have no foundation to the structure of our understanding. As previously stated, foundation is the bottom of all perspectives, and having a ground is necessary to understand where someone is coming from. However, even categorizing the perspectives is tricky, especially because of all the nuance surrounding the issue. There are many different pro-Palestinians, and pro-Israelis, as well as liberals and conservatives, however they do not all support Palestine or Israel in the same way. For example, I am a Liberal pro-Isaeli supporter, but that does not mean I disregard the Palestinian people. In fact, I think a lot of what Israel is doing is wrong: from the settlers, to the current prime minister, to the slaughter in Gaza. However, culturally I side with Israel, as I am a Jew. It is common for people to side with their community, so I understand on the flip side why a Palestinian or Arab might side with Palestine over Israel. What is important for us to do, however, is deal with the conflict in a way that is not aggressive, or grounded in emotion, but instead neutral. In this section, I will talk about how we have to ground our conversations in neutrality and unalignment, and disregard our personal beliefs, if we want to make progress toward resolution. We can not harbor hatred and spite anymore. That is why I am trying my best to write this essay in a neutral manner.
	In trying to understand the multiple perspectives surrounding the conflict, so I could try to make sense of them, I postulated many questions, mainly concerning a person’s understanding of their own understanding, and reaction rooted in emotion, versus responses rooted in logic. I interviewed two people, and sent out a form to gather information on people’s understanding, as well as read many sources. I found a lot of disagreement on a lot of fundamental issues, which are what I am going to be going into depth into. There are five main facets of disagreement, all having to do with religious, territorial, political, economic, and other such categories, as well as history and identity. The disagreement concerns: the aggressor and the defender, justifications for violence (who has a right to the land, which religion has the most validity, previous conflict (actually, previous conflict overlaps a lot with everything)), whom we have sympathy for (based on various claims made on both sides that are constantly refuted by the other), and foundational understanding that differs because of culture. The argument is grounded in objections to either side that concern blame and fault for each country’s (and outside supporter’s) actions. Before I even delve into dissecting the disagreements above, I have to suggest that identity, grounded in emotion, thought, experience, and understanding, is what fuels these disagreements, and leads people to not look at multiple sides. Really, simply, we have to look at all sides. And, take into account the multiple aspects of multiple sides. Such as the extremist religious groups in Israel such as versus the human rights activists and lawyers who are actually trying to help the Palestinians, and the West Bank versus Gaza, led by different organizations with different roots.
	I have to introduce the perspectives I am using. They are not encompassing a whole people, but just perspectives I am working with to showcase how there is disagreement, and how we should respond to it. Each different disagreement is important to go over because it progresses from more real concepts to hypothetical ones, which I can give increasingly nuanced explanations on how one should try to understand themselves and others with. There are three main categories of how I will do this: with one’s understanding of themself, one’s understanding of others, and one’s understanding of the world (including different systems, communities, sciences, and more). Limited sources prove no good as to how a person should understand information, so I propose you should read more after this article to understand a conflict, or at least know there are more perspectives you can’t take into account. As the neutral sides of this categorization do not inspire any heated reaction, I propose that many people do not actually fall under the category. Therefore, I have only encountered one neutral on the conflict Liberal. I interviewed a woman named ____ on her experiences. For the Liberal pro-Palestinian perspective, I am going to be referring to the BDS website and the book 100 Years’ War on Palestine, while for the Conservative pro-Palestinian perspective I will be considering the Hamas charter. I could not find any neutral pro-Palestinian perspectives. For the pro-Israeli perspectives there are no neutral perspectives being covered here, instead Liberal, such as Noah Tishby’s The Most Misunderstood Country, and Gordis’s A Concise History, as well as ideas from my own understanding. From the conservative side, there are different perspectives from Israel, such as from ___ (settlers, stuff like that), and a man I interviewed. Even though he is a liberal in Israel, there are many ideas he has surrounding the conflict that America and the West would find not liberal. I will use his perspective later to explain why these categorizations were just there to ground perspective and offer an easier understanding, when in reality the overlap of cultures has made the ability to understand the conflict from the outside much, much harder. In fact, I would say a lot of this essay actually deals with how two things: how countries outside a conflict can properly involve themselves in a conflict, and understand the two sides in a way that doesn’t muddle their own identity with those so foreign; and the actual sides that disagree in a region, who are involved in a conflict, who have a different understanding that is grounded in reality, and not theory and newspaper articles.
	To begin, I will look at different perspectives on the aggressor and defender in the situation. I will not use every source for each analysis, but the main ideas surrounding the idea that potentially overlaps. First, I will look at perspectives on how Palestine is the defender, and Israel is the aggressor. A lot of these analyses will have some overlap, and have the same proposed defenses from either side: this shows that many people come from the same place, instead of thinking on their own. There are many different ways of looking at who is the aggressor and defender in this conflict, and it connects to justifications for violence. The perceived aggressor is the one who is perceived to not properly justify their actions, or who has done more egregious things. However, I do not think that looking at this through a lens of aggressor and defender is proper, because while many people break it into that, there is no real aggressor and defender, no static sides, but instead a dynamic back and forth between both militias that creates tension. BDS promotes ideas that “Israel has implemented a regieme of settler colonialism, apartheid and occupation over the Palestinian people,” they also promote that Israel has “ethnically-cleansed” the land in they al-Nakba, and that they are causing “genocide” in Gaza with the war. Just from this viewpoint, and the fact that there is some truth to what the writers are saying, I can understand why many agree that Israel is terrible, and doing terrible things against Gaza. However, Israel does not believe that they have done any of these things, even though the UN proposes they have. Israel actually feels as though Hamas is the aggressor who initiated this current conflict on October 7th. On October 7th, Hamas militants breached the borders of Israel, and attacked villages on the border, Kibbutzim (agricultural land), and innocent people at the NOVA musical festival. That specific date was no ordinary date, however, the militants slaughtered, raped, ripped apart, and took hostage Israelis, Jews, and citizens of other countries visiting (including America), on Simchat Torah, what should have been a day where the Jews celebrated finishing reading the Torah. It paralleled the Yom Kippur war launched October 6th, 1973. Then, on October 27th, 2023, not even three weeks after the attack, the UN passed a resolution that called for a humanitarian truce, so that Israel would stop the war on Gaza, and Hamas would hand the hostages back. But Hamas did not return the hostages, so Israel continued to fight; though, they were shunned for it – shunned for trying to avenge an attack made against them. Although, in attacking the Palestinians, they have been aggressive and have displaced many citizens and other peoples. Further, before the conflict, starting in 1948, there has been continuous war, in which Israel has beaten many Middle Eastern attackers who have started wars, but in doing so have taken territory that was not rightfully theirs. And during 1948, 800,000 Palestinians became displaced, because they fled Israel on orders of their fellow Arabic countries so that Israel could be wiped off the map; however, the ideology in the Middle East was one that opposed the idea of a foreign country coming into territory, even if bought legally. They felt that Israel was colonizing the land, and taking from Palestine; if a colony of Arabs was set up in the United States, because Middle Eastern countries bought a town, and declared sovereignty, the United States would not be happy. What makes this part of the story difficult, however, is that the British had won the territory from the Ottoman Empire, and it was their colonization of the territory, not the Jews; although, the Jews were favored by Britain in receiving land, as in the Balfour Declaration of 1917 the Jews were not wanted in Europe, and in 1948 they just suffered through the Holocaust, while meanwhile the Arabs did not have any support: they had little finances, governmental structure, and were stuck without independence until after World War II. There was not a lot of choice in the matter for either side, apart from the fact that they could have handled it diplomatically. However, diplomacy does not always work, and both sides have religious grievances toward the other. And, so, the infamous war came about. Whether or not the Nakba was really Israel or the surrounding Arab countries fault, whether Palestine would not accept “fair” conditions, or whether Israel was overly oppressive toward the Palestinians does not matter – both sides have done so much to the other, that in the end, there is no aggressor or defender, but instead a constant flux of conflict, which has to stop. Another important thing to mention on this topic, is that apart from the opinions expressed in the media, the government has the say of the education of the people, and how they consume knowledge in schools. The government controls a lot of their citizen’s ideology, belief, and identity, in any place without free speech, and even in places with free speech. The educational aspect of the conflict matters, because the consumption of information heavily influences how one’s perspective is formed. Further, government ideologies expressed internationally almost overshadow the variation in the country. As an American, I know that there is a lot of variation of belief, and way of life; however, as an American, it is also easy to forget how other countries have variation as well, which leads to extreme ideas being able to be formed because of distance to a place, and a lack of understanding for the other side. Government heavily influences outside perception of a country, and interpretation of internal affairs of said country. Not living through another’s life makes it extremely hard to understand them, which is why empathy is so important.
	When further discussing justifications for violence, there is the argument that either side has right to the land, which justifies them taking it back. I have to say that it does not matter at all. The neutral to the conflict Liberal stated that “both Israelis and Palestinian-Arabs have legitimate ties to the land,” further, in the book Letters to my Palestinian Neighbor, in the first letter written from a Palestinian to Yoshi, the writer admits “we both have legitimate claims.” Sometimes, what is stopping both sides from connecting, is the fact that both people want the same land, and both have ties to it. While many argue that Palestinians were here when Israel was gone, or that the Jewish people were there first, or that the Palestinians lived there first, or that the Jewish people’s peoplehood has changed so much, they have no right to the land, it really doesn’t matter! In this case, truth becomes irrelevant, and instead a nation's right to have a state takes priority. Each nation’s national identity needs to have a region to prosper in, otherwise each is just a floating people without a homeland for their distinct people. Once an identity forms, no matter how or when it forms, or why, it deserves a place to live. Further justifications for violence through ties to the land include religious zeal. As I explained before, Jews believe that they have a right to the land because of their religious ties to it. It has become a hope for them that they finally were granted after 2000 years; meanwhile, for the Islamic faith, Jerusalem is the third most holy city, and the people also have ties to it. Also, any country once operated by Muslims has the right to be held by Muslims again, and that cannot be discounted. Even if there are extreme oppressors and terrorists who wield religion as a rhetorical device to delegitimize other countries and peoples, I say that religion should instead be tried to be appreciated by each side, and understood, so they can realize where the other person is coming from, and live peacefully. I realize how optimistic I sound, and how many people might disagree with me, but only if people would abandon their fears, and be open to chatting, the world would become a better place.
	The sympathies of those involved in the war can vary significantly. However, the sympathies I think matter the most are not those internal to the conflict, but external, because those internal to the conflict have a reality of the situation that is real to them, while those external to the conflict more see the conflict in theories and hypotheticals, and listening to what they are told, more so than seeing things for themselves. And even then, what someone sees, even internal to a conflict, is not always accurate, especially when there are so many different cultures and perspectives being expressed through the media. For instance, in America, there is an extreme polarization; however, those outside of America still understand polarization in a different light than those living in the country. I, personally, do not feel the tension apart from in news headlines, however, those same news headlines could potentially anger people outside a country, or maybe make them think egregious things about Americans. Same things for Israelis and Gazans. Israelis, in America, either garner sympathies from conservatives, or from Jews, not usually from non-Jewish liberals. On the other hand, Gazans garner sympathies from liberal Americans, and most Muslims and Arabs. There are many different types of ways that Israel and Gaza get support in America, but the main branches are the BDS protesting movement, especially on college campuses, and most Jews. There is no government involvement in the conflict, apart from aid being given. No lives are being lost in America. That is the distinguishing factor from Israel and Gaza. In Israel, as one of my interviewees who lives in Israel talks about, . Further, people in Israel, as well as Americans, do not fully understand what it is like to be in Gaza, as they are not there themselves. Only those visiting and going into Gaza can see what it is like. The same is true for Gazan’s understanding in Israel. The Israelis do not know what it is like to have a terrorist regime lord over them, and the Gazans do not know what it is like to be targeted out of pure hatred for religion (of course, there are some exceptions to this, but Israel is a country that provides rights for their citizens, Arab or Muslim, while Hamas explicitly writes in its charter that it wants to kill all Jews). Further, the Americans and people outside the conflict, with no attachment through family, ethnicity, or religion, do not even begin to comprehend it, as many of them have not lived in war, let alone constant war. So, when there are people taking one side without even considering the other, allowing there to be a double standard, it actually makes me mad. There are Israelis and Gazans who do this as well, but I am most mad about it in America, as people who have no tie to a conflict becoming mad over something without looking at both stories is infuriating. At least on the actual grounds of the conflict, the emotional connection is explainable. People external to the conflict have a right to express an idea, but whenever those ideas are expressed that makes one side negative, that is not right. An external person to a conflict should be the voice of reason, trying to mitigate damage, instead of decreasing damage for either side. Right now, our countries are separated, and though overlapping, culture remains separated: because of this, we should never impose our moralities on another who is external to our national identity, as national identity influences one’s morality. Of course, we do not always want to remain separated, but until we are, we have to not escalate conflict.
	The main issue, which relates to why there is such disagreement, such different sympathies taken, and such opposing and polarizing perspectives, lies in foundational understanding. I have touched on this before, but the different definitions that lay the groundwork of understanding, whether political (ambitions that people want to fulfill, to do right by their country or themselves), religious, territorial, cultural, or other, cause there to be that disagreement in the first place. Further, there are many claims that link in to definitions that oppose each other, when in reality these claims should not be what are spouted and used to attack one another, when in reality it is the definitions of things that cause disagreement. More bluntly stated, the various perspectives grounded in the aforementioned things. I have talked about a lot of these terms before, but there is Zionism, colonialism, apartheid, ethnic cleansing, terrorism, and other such words thrown around in this conversation to attack either side. However, the interpretation of these terms varies. One may believe that Israel, in killing the Gazans, and causing a genocide, but others may think that they are fighting a war, and there will be deaths. People will not only have different definitions for things, but interpret what happens in various ways that causes disagreement. Let’s face it, the reason why someone would most likely join in on the side of genocide, is because they are emotionally attached to the dying Palestinians, and want the brutality to stop – people may think that Netanyahu is terrible and he is causing the damage, when he shouldn’t be, others may think that Israel’s military as a whole is violent and should not be supported. Others, many Jews and supporters, might believe that Israel is in the right because of October 7th, or that they need the hostages back. Israel can be attacking Gaza for both the right and wrong reasons, depending on which moral lens you look at this issue with. With that in mind, we have to realize that there will always be different ways to judge a situation, and that no one way is correct. Because of that, especially in relation to those external to the conflict, allowing one perspective to overshadow all others and become overly correct is wrong to do – we have to look at all sides, as to prevent such polarization internationally and nationally. No one is right, or wrong, about a situation – people are allowed to judge a country – however, people can not harbor perspectives that sow hatred. We can believe that Palestinians should live, that they are mistreated in Israel, and that there are many terrible Israelis; But also believe that Israel has the right to continue fighting the war, that Arabs have full rights in Israel (though they are mistreated), and that there are many good Israelis as well as bad Palestinians (such as members of the terrorist organization Hamas). It may seem hard to do, but we can hold contrasting beliefs as both true: we can hold different perspectives that stem from different interpretations of definitions in our minds, to believe in different claims, ones that potentially contrast and contradict each other. We have to be okay with discomfort and disagreement, so that we can stop letting it (for whatever reason) create death and worsening of lives. We are on this earth to evolve the planet, and that is what we should do.
	When we break this conflict down into its essence, it is about a fight between two people (whose culture sows hate) over who has the right to live in a land. However, both the Israelis and the Palestinians have legitimate claims to the territory, though they cannot share it. There is a right and wrong way for people to behave around each other and for countries to interact, and the way that Palestine and Israel have interacted is wrong. That doesn’t mean that we need to bring fault to the table, and blame one side or the other – everything that has happened is just a discovered response or reaction to something someone else did. In a conflict like this, there is no one right thing for a person to do, there is just a myriad of different actions people can take, which can be violent, peaceful, or a mix; everyone is just trying to feel safe, and when a war has been going on for over a hundred years between two people, it tends to become escalated and hard to undo. But we have to undo this terrible situation. We might not do it in this generation, especially if the negative influence of people (who though they could change, will not) like Netanyahu who worsen the situation and sow hatred. There is no radical solution, instead, a gradual one. Promoting education and understanding in both regions: the people living in the region have to study the history of each land, and understand where their neighbors come from. We have to start seeing both sides of the story, instead of clinging to one because of fear, or other understandable human suffering. The Palestinian people are currently living in a warzone, unable to eat or have food – even if Israel is trying to offer them salvation, and even if they are doing a good job preventing even higher civilian deaths, there seems to be a lack of understanding of their actions from the  government, especially, that is causing tension to spike. Whether or not justified, or right, or ethical in their actions; whether or not we have to accept war as it is, or protest against it; whether a terrorist group is suppressing a people and causing the world to hate another country because of it; every single perspective has validity, and truth behind it. Every single voice and narrative adds to a larger story that the world is not trying to understand, but instead hides behind the facts that they have heard of. We have to band together to understand one another, we can not, in America, let BDS separate Jews supporting their country from liberals, or blame BDS for trying to protect their people by any means necessary – the Palestinians media war is no worse than the Israeli’s murder. Either way, we have to acknowledge both sides have potential to understand each other and find a way to develop a new culture and a new understanding. There are hundreds of thousands of Palestinian Arabs with full rights, though they are prejudiced against (similar to African Americans), living in Israel that have assimilated. It will be an ongoing battle to remove the hate toward them by extremist Israelis, but most of my family friends living in Israel tell me about how they promote positive relationships with Arabs, and do not criticize them for their support of their brothers and sisters in Gaza. We need to not create a two-state solution, where we keep the people separate, but instead make Israel a state that includes Palestinians. It may be hard for both sides to accept, and it may not be implemented immediately, but if the study of history is not limited to just one perspective, and instead a comprehensive view of all, that simple change in education can help save the country. Open-mindedness can be taught, and right now in Gaza it is not taught, and the Israelis are not doing anything to try and teach them. The Israeli people, better than anyone else on Earth, should understand what it is like to be displaced out of a country. For 2000 years the Jews had to leave their biblical homeland, and not have a state. And now, the Palestinians are undergoing the same terror the Jews underwent, and are not being protected. I believe that a lot of the current ideologies on both sides are flawed, and that has impacted external countries to further those beliefs; however, just by taking the time to read literature and be self-aware of the opinion one expresses, the situation will gradually improve. All it will take is practice, and time. Israel has the potential to educate the whole Middle East on who they are, and they have the opportunity to learn as well – just because there are conflicting ideologies in the region, does not mean they cannot adapt. Once this so-called middle ground is reached, there will be a Western and Eastern perspective that will form a new period of flourishing, overcoming dictatorships, and a new stage for the world to keep innovating on. All the Palestinians need is support, and Israel is the perfect one to give it. It will be hard to overcome the tragedies on both sides, and there will be death, but if everyone forces themselves to be open to it, things will change for the better. The only way the conflict will evolve is if there is no separation between the Jews and Arabs, otherwise there will always be hatred that persists. Each side should make sacrifices for the other, and promote a bond of trust. I don’t think any conservative views will allow this to be possible: we will have to abandon tradition, and create something new, together.

Section 3: A Moral Look at the Conflict and the Larger Question of “How Can We Change?”

	The conflict between Palestine and Israel, as previously stated, reduces down to a question of land rights, religious fights, and other disagreement. This disagreement is situated in varying perspectives. To take a step forward, the varying perspective is tied to each countries and peoples identity: the beliefs each side possesses that escalate otherwise “unimportant” constructs that have no place in reality. However, while the only thing that is true about reality is position, there are many different interpretations of that position, which leads to these different perspectives. And these different interpretations are formed in whatever way leads to a person’s and their system’s survival. These interpretations lead people to understand what they should do, what is evil to them (what opposes their evolution), and what constitutes good (which is different than what they should do, as what they should do at times only applies within their system). All these assertions connect to one key philosophical idea: morality. Morality and perspective are intertwined, because there is no true moral way to live, but instead it varies based on identity and understanding of position. So, in this section, I will uncover how the various moralities of the Palestinian-Israeli war can help us to understand how to form moralities that take as much of known knowledge into account, without allowing contradictions to confuse us. To accomplish this heady task, I look toward a variety of philosophers, and their moral interpretations, which I will apply to my case study to uncover just how disagreement rooted in moral difference can be overcome. I have many core ideas present in my argument, related to different questions I am posing myself, that I am going to answer: ___. I have already talked a lot about Israel-Palestine, but I hope that these new ideas further the nuance, and allow the hole we climb out of to reach a brighter day. 
	To begin, I would like to talk about the various amounts of power that exist within different class structures of society. As Nietzsche proposed in the 1700s, and as seen in World War II, the ruling class controls those below, by getting them to believe ideas they propagate. That is why it is so important for people to think for themselves, because otherwise they might fall victim to agreeing with negative ideas, and not think, which would cause unjust things to happen. It only takes one bad apple to spoil a barrel, and the same applies for human systems. Further, as seen in the Rwandan genocide and with the Eichmann trial, as proposed by Arendt, thoughtlessness is one of the causes that leads to evil. Lack of intentionality and understanding, just following along with what those above tell you ends up creating bad scenarios. However, it is not that the ruling class, or higher class has complete control over what those below them believe, instead, while they might control law, and enforcement of their own morality, others have the ability to form their own morality. We live in a day and age where speaking out against law and tradition is not always met with aggression and violence: instead of religious fanatics and heads, and monarchs declaring absolute law, the citizens have more freedom to express their own beliefs. However, as previously postulated, that has led to some negative things, as the ability to speak out against the government creates disorder, polarization, and chaos. While it is important for people to have rights, we have to remember that at least right now people may not have complete rights, and maybe even ever, so we might almost need to just allow those in power to impose whatever laws they will, unless they take it out on a specific class. Essentially, that is what is happening in the world, as leaders are beginning to break laws, not follow rules, and more. Before October 7th, Netanyahu was attempting to take authoritarian power in Israel, and currently Trump is headed down that path. We can either, as I have ventured to say, allow this to happen, and allow the flow of power and control over humanity to be dynamic, or we can put our foot down, and say no to oppression. But in saying no to any one oppression, that leads us to be saying no to a belief of another – how do we know it is our belief that is correct, our ideology that should lead humanity? We don’t. So, when people who support Palestine or people who support Israel call for the other’s demise, it might be correct, or it might be wrong. This leads to two more questions, what even is this truth (which I have prodded at previously), and at what point can we allow ourselves to attack another system of belief, internally or external to our own morality, to stop violence and destruction of ourselves? At what point can we be selfish, and not worry about people taking offense to what we say?
	When I told people about writing this essay, numerous people told me that I should, quote on quote, “Be careful when dealing with such a controversial topic.” Within our society today, is a fear of language, as Toni Morisson says, and a fear of this evolved social construct that comes in the form of social media, new appearances, different music, and different images of what a human should be. Because we focus so much on what we should be, we forget that others have different ideas of what that should be, and when those ideas conflict with ours, we shun them, instead of embracing them. Whatever the main idea of what should be is, what clothes to wear, what makeup to put on, what face to have, spreads like a virus (because of the new interconnectedness of the world), and affects people all over the world, even more so those who have overlapping cultures. So, a kid who is fighting might hate themselves for having too much belly, or an adult man might still be in the closet for being gay. There is such a variation of what we should become, that when one person doesn’t fit the category, and isn’t allowed to dream, it further shatters their identity, and further makes them believe that they should attach themselves to one belief, one followed belief that they can deal with, so they can feel good about themselves. Our desire to survive has shifted, no longer do we want to battle tigers away from our huts, but instead, we want to battle to reach the top of the pyramid, the top of the hierarchy of success. And so success, and authority, and having power, becomes what is desired, because that is what allows people to “survive.” So, when people tell me I should be careful talking about this, it is only because they fear I might offend someone – in reality, the only person I would offend are the people in control of the conversation, and everyone being manipulated underneath them. There is no right answer – I hate to say this, but even hate speech can be argued. One may say this is the type of statement that might be controversial, but again, it does not only apply to one side. I am saying that I would fully allow myself to be labeled as “Jewish scum,” or a “Sissy,” because I think that the possibility that they might be right, is more important than my ego. However, most people do not want to talk that way, and I can stay clear of the people who do. As long as the people who do, who are outside my current communities, stay away, and do not try to enforce their beliefs on me, all is good. There is a difference in this new social privatization, than in sharing culture, however; people can still post on social media, as long as the highlighted videos, and the main ideals of our society do not remain static, but shift, constantly evolving. If we can continue to evolve, not enforce our own beliefs on each other, and not be afraid to speak our mind (and in turn not shut other people down for disagreeing with us) – if we don’t allow emotion to consume us – we can achieve a moral sanctity: we might not be morally correct, but we will be morally accepting, and acceptance is what should be done.
	However, there is a difference between sympathy and empathy. Sympathy would entail that if a person called me slurs, I would feel back for them, and erase all my anger toward them – I am not saying that if someone is attacked, we shouldn’t retaliate, or fight back. We can respond however we chose, as long as what we chose involves empathy. If we can look into another’s eyes, and think about why they are doing what they’re doing, and remember that we don’t have to escalate the conflict, and we can walk away, we most likely wouldn’t be scrambling over such tiny unimportant things as being called a name. I believe we can choose to do what we want to, and not care about how society inflicts itself on us. We are part of society, and as such, we have a say in which direction it should head, so we can exercise that power by being ourselves, as stupid as it may sound. I think that many people do subliminally do this, without realizing, and do care for others, while not being pushovers; however, I admit, language does have an impact on us, and it may be hard to purposefully adopt this ideology if we do not have the natural resolution. An amazing philosopher, Emerson, in his essay self-reliance, speaks about how we can have that resolve to look inward, and outward, and see the world in a way that does not polarize us. We can indeed grow from our own “genius,” as he describes our ability to produce, control, and love our own thoughts, and put out in the world what we think. We can break free of tradition, and not allow it to shackle us. On the other hand, Emerson poses the interesting point that tradition, and in my case law, does matter to govern a society. We can not allow everyone to just run wild, curse out each other, and sow conflict, because that would lead to anarchy. That is the importance of law and authority: But we need good ones to properly exist in today’s world. Not ones like Netanyahu who prioritize themselves over others. As Michael Walzer describes a politician, they have to be one who can have dirty hands, and live with it: they have to be able to make hard moral choices for their people, and still feel guilty about it. They have to be self-aware of their actions, be willing to be a scapegoat, and not act for themselves, but instead the people. If we have leaders like this, we can begin to have more trust in our system, and how it deals with external systems. We need to have faith in what is happening in this international world, so we can live day-to-day without fear of any inimical obstructions of justice that are opposed to us within and without our country and community. The many degrees of politics serves as a way for us to have that self-assurance. However, when we have politicians, anywhere in the world, who pose a threat – and when that threat builds to the point where we don’t feel safe, we start looking for something to make us feel safe again, Taylor Swift, or ideas on the external conflict that is causing them that underlying fear. When I was younger, just a few years ago, even while playing soccer with my dad for fun, I would still glance to the sky, afraid a nuclear bomb would come crashing down. The new age of interconnectedness has driven us through so much fear, and the after-effects of the cold-war, and the new cold-war upon us, are making us believe in these new religions. Before, and now, there was Catholicism, Judaism, Hinduism, Islam, and more religions. Now, we have institutions that control our thoughts, and tell us what to think. How is Meta any different than the Vatican? It’s not. All that is different, is that the bad authority above us, trying to control us without our knowledge, is not cloaked in a white robe, but in many layers of servers, employees, and “company” policy. As much as we need our government to be led by the people, a politician who serves the people, we are currently in a crisis where we are being forced into spheres of belief that effectively ruin our ability to understand the world in a way that can account for other people. We are funneled into little boxes, and different things we attach ourselves to. Identity, the very concept of it, is just another idea. There may not even be anything real about what makes each of us different. We are of the same flesh and blood, we each have the same capacities, we each have the ability to study – sure, there may be people who can reach different places, but we each should have a place to reach, that is not behind a counter, which I believe the majority of people can get to with better education. My point is that identity does not control us, we do not have to fit ourselves into some box the authority of our systems place us into, and we do not need to subscribe to the conflict they sow, intentionally, or unintentionally, between us. We can learn things ourselves, we can make movements ourselves, and we do not have to act in any manner – I am not saying to rebel, or to riot, I am saying to use your voice, hell, your anger and aggression, to make change, as long as it doesn’t hurt anyone. But who am I to say what does hurt anyone? That has to be your journey to understand; each person has a different “breaking point,” a point you need to use empathy to understand. Otherwise, just be yourself, and don’t put any labels on anything, because those labels are not yours, they never will be your possessions, they will just be you marking your forehead with a piece of tape, saying, “I am owned by this ideology, this definition.” You have to make sense of who you are yourself, and be able to explain your own personhood, and who you are, without the single word of “Jewish,” or “Muslim.” We have to make sense of everything in our own way, so that we can understand our and other’s moralities. Only then, can we march forward together, in a way that promotes justice, well-being, and togetherness, instead of negativity, disagreement, and career ending statements.
	So, truth is not one label, one definition, or one perspective – it is the ability for all of us to share our perspectives, to read, to understand. There is no one right narrative, as Robert Braun explains in his essay on historical narratives: people cannot reflect on reality perfectly because of different memories, understandings, and thoughts. In fact, the narrative that is usually promoted is never truly perfect, as I have said time and time again. This truth that I have just been explaining the nuances of, is really just a label on some person’s ideology: we can have the idea of truth in language, it is always good to have as much understanding as possible, and ways to express thought, but we can not just say, over and over again, that the truth can be applied to things outside of oneself. We cannot say that our own truth is anyone else's. So, even if someone believes that I am a “Jewish scum,” and while they can say it, and while I should back away as an individual, it is time now for good leaders to step in, those who can be scapegoats by making choices normal individuals should not make, to punish that man who oversteps his boundaries. We can not rely on social punishment to be enough, because people will always have different communities to return to, we have to rely on good leaders to recognize when people exert their opinions on someone else: when that occurs, there are different degrees to which it can occur, but it is never good. However, there is a difference from putting one’s ideas out there, then making someone try to believe it; however, when a person puts their ideas out there in a way that does not express their own ideas and definitions, that becomes negative. Take this any way you want, I think it means that all Journalism should be made of opinion pieces, and people will have to tie them together as they may. In fact, all Journalism really is is a large opinion piece that tricks you into thinking it is not. However, at this point, I do not believe a book should be heavily scrutinized to make sure it takes into account all the specific details; instead, a person who promotes ageism, racism, or traditional ideas of hatred, should be shut down (not with violence of course). So, we should never have the right to be selfish and shut other people down, and impose our ideas of truth on them, but we can allow our authority to do so. We should never take conflict into our own hands, because that creates negative results. What messes the whole situation up, however, are when individuals have to promote their own ideas, when there is injustice in a system and a leader is biased and terrible, like Netaynahu and Trump. However, if instead of individuals focusing their protesting efforts against a whole country, they should be specific to a government. BDS should not promote ideas of wiping Israel off the map, from the “River to the Sea, Set Palestine Free,” but instead yell and hate Netanyahu and the government as much as possible, without attacking the Israeli citizens, some of whom are also Arab and Palestinian. Just do not let it escalate to violence. We can protest against our own government, and hell, institutions, but never against groups of culture, which includes religion. The one other difference between institution and religion, is that institution is not inherent to a person’s identity, it just molds it and influences it to the point where it can overcome a person's life, a religion is ingrained in humanity with time. Soon, maybe Mark Zuckerberg will be the next Jesus – he probably would love that. So, truth is all relative, we ourselves should not attack systems of belief, only institutions, and we always have the right to express our own beliefs, as long as we aren’t selfish (at all), in wanting people to fulfill our beliefs and desires over theirs. For example, take getting a cup of water for someone. If it is not in your mindset to get that for someone, they can not make you, and should not be mad at you for not getting it for them. They can, however, leave you for people who do support them. There is no right answer to whether they should, or not, do that. They can succumb to the tribalistic nature of humanity, as long as they don’t let that nature force power on to other “tribes,” or, they can exist with people outside their systems of belief, and trust the government, the ruling force, to make the right call. In the end, we do have to trust the authority’s morality, but as citizens, we have the ability to choose leaders that will do as much as they can for us, and if we can find a way to always ensure that, as so many people have stated throughout time, the world would be a better place. Never peaceful, never equal, never free, but led by a person who understands they are not leading a single people, but a nation that in today’s world, is built up of many, many different factions.
Now, to connect this back to the case study. A huge part of the issue at hand connects to conflicts that vary between people living through conflict, and those external to it. Within conflict, emotions are heightened, and in this case the Palestinians, Arabs, and Israelis involved are both doing bad things. However, I do not mean to say that this applies to a whole category of people. Instead, I actually propose that categorizing any one group as all terrorists, or colonists, is bad, and should not happen. While many people may do bad things, we cannot make assumptions and prejudices toward a whole country or people just because of previous conflict, and arguments that become heightened and lead to violence and aggression. Especially when one is external to a conflict. If someone butts in and tries to change what is happening internationally, the effects are usually bad. The only time a morality of a system has validity, is when it is used by those members of a system. While pro-Palestinian or pro-Israeli protestors do have the right to protest and spew speech, I do not believe it is in the best interest of those internal to the conflict. Of course, with the overlapping of many cultures in this modern day and age, there are people living in external places to the conflict that have ties back to it: practitioners of religions related to the conflict, and people who share ethnicities. I argue that both religion and ethnicity are just a construct that should be overcome. The only reason why one side, or another, that lives external to a conflict have sympathies, is because of constructs that bear down on their being. Tribalism is real, but it doesn’t have to be – there is nothing connecting a white person to another white person, more than that white person can be connected to a black person. This idea that legislation and tradition, the color of one’s skin, gender, sex – any of that – actually connects people, is a lie. It is not those things that connect people, but the perceptions underlying them that cause people to form into various groups. Everything is a game of the mind’s interpretation, and how different webs of categorization are spun by different people. So, while there are pro-Palestinian and pro-Israeli supporters and protestors external to the conflict, they are just fitting themselves into a category that makes them feel safe, and have less fear surrounding the conflict. The way they interpret the world funnels them into a box of belief, which cuts out the ability for them to have thought of their own. There are only so many various ideas and thoughts that can be had about one thing that lead to such conflict, so many interpretations that cause a human to force themselves to protect themselves against another – we can stop playing into what has already been done, and start creating new ideologies of our own. The world doesn’t need to be a confine of order, it can breach out and be a changing order that allows different people and cultures to have power, one that can allow them to be shared to the hypothetical “throne.” I think it is time we get past the idea of liberty and equality, and justice for all, because that is an old idea, and one we have outgrown. It’s not possible for humans to – for generations – keep peace between each other, and not fight, or bicker, or have changes in power. But if we allow ourselves to understand that this will happen, inevitably, we can allow power to be removed from us more graciously, and not fight so hard to keep it, because we live in a world where the ruling class isn’t the only one who can survive and live amazing lives: we live in a world where technology offers us the ability to lose over and over again, because medicine, fun, and interconnectedness allows us to get back up again, instead of die of a wound, or of something else. There needs to be a paradigm shift in our thinking, which can be programmed through educating younger generations to see the world not as a dog fight, like the olden days, but as a farm, where everyone has the chance to grow new fruits and vegetables. We can not let our old, tribalistic, animalistic desires and nature cause us to overlook problems such as global warming, we cannot allow ourselves to fall victim to those with power, we cannot allow those with power to cause whole populations of citizens to fight against each other. The government does not need to make hard choices anymore, ones where they have to choose between right and wrong, we don’t have to make people liable for bad things they do, we can heal like never seen before. We are on the brink of a new Technological Revolution, and when it comes, people will stop dying so quickly, food will not be so scarce, and we will have the technology to make all that I said actually happen. Protestors will not need to band up against each other because of a problem 2000 miles away. Tradition will not cause hatred between people anymore. We will have peace. With war, all these nuances about how citizens should interact with other citizens of a country, how the government should interact with each other, how the government and citizens interact with each other all becomes muddled, because the basic understanding of not imposing yourself on each other becomes broken. Of course, there shouldn’t be war, and citizens shouldn’t want war. But sometimes war is one of the things a government has to do to stop an outside source, or country, from imposing their “religion” on to them, and the government has full right to make that choice – even if they don’t acknowledge their “dirty hands,” although, if they do that, they are incredibly corrupt – however, under no circumstances should a citizen be combined with a politician, because they form two different roles in human interaction. Of course, those roles might just be constructs, but for now (or until I or someone else dives deeper into this issue), we have to develop trust, and allow our perspectives to remain strong, and our ability to understand other’s perspectives, our own perspective’s, and the world and society’s happenings and perspectives to prosper, and we have to just let things happen. We have to “agree to disagree,” and whatever comes of that, so be it.

Conclusion

This essay is only one perspective. What is important about it, is that it acknowledges that it is just one point in a huge graph of idea and ideology, and it acknowledges the same about other perspectives as well. It looks in, while looking out, and then inside the outer perspectives as well. If each perspective could do that, it doesn’t matter how extreme, how “right” or “wrong,” it should be listened to. Because, if a person is circumspecting the issue, then they most likely will not be extreme. However, if a person, or group, does not look at all possible ways to see a perspective, then usually that perspective (while it should be looked at to understand the system proposing it, and while it can be educational) lacks the depth needed to make a real contribution to the overall knowledge of the world. Instead, perspectives that don’t look in the way I describe, and acknowledge the many other ways to look, are ignorant and do not take into account the whole picture. When the whole picture is not taken into account, or tried to be taken into account, that perspective becomes irrelevant. It is not a matter of “right” or “wrong,” blame or fault, or liability, but instead, whether or not a person is self-aware, and is aware of the impact they have on others. If they are not, one should not consider adopting their ideology. One should not be consumed by politics, religion, nation, or other aspects of their identity when making choices that influence others around them; they can allow those aspects of their identity to influence their perspective, but they should make actions knowing where their perspective is weak, so that the most harm is mitigated. Morality isn’t just what should happen, it is about removing the self from a decision, so what should happen isn’t what should happen just for you. And, as I said before, we can achieve this with empathy, a willingness to disagree, a willingness to lose an argument, a willingness to understand that just because something is right to you it is not right to others, and a willingness to change yourself for others. A willingness to evolve. That is inherently most of what I am saying; one other thing I can add is that the dynamic of a nation is what causes a lot of these conflicts and disagreements to spark to the level they do. If we just remained calm, and did not try to do things citizens and politicians should not do, the world would be much better. However, there is the final issue that we still do not know entirely what to do, when many of these cases I brought up become invalid, and when someone does, or does not, practice self-awareness. In conclusion, I will go over some of the points I made, criticize them, and dig into why I wrote as I did. If you do what I am about to do, you are set to be a proper, moral citizen, or, hopefully, a perfectly immoral politician who can control those citizens that create institutions that oppose the natural flow of government.
I would like to go over things I did not take into account, the fact that everyone doesn’t take something into account, and the fact of knowing how to know what applies to an argument, and what doesn’t – otherwise, analyzing what can break an argument down, and whether that thing should be taken into account. Should we look toward all-encompassing perspectives, or be aware of knowledge we may not provide? To start, I want to look at what I did not do correctly in the essay: any arguments I didn’t take into account, any information I could have included better, and any assumptions I made that stemmed from unclear definitions I had and anything in my original line of thinking and shifting thoughts that I clarified, or didn’t, after editing the essay. Then, I would like to connect it back to who I am, to let you know that knowing yourself is necessary to develop empathy. One also has to be humble and honest with themselves about their strengths and weaknesses, so they know when they overstep and need to rethink boundaries. Self-reflections and check-ins are very important to keep a system efficient and running.
There are many things I did not take into account, but for the purpose of the conclusion I am making, I would like to talk about things not directly related to the argument. For example, I did not think about animals when I wrote this essay, until it was too late. I was focused on human morality and suffering, instead of animals. As Korsgaard critiqued Kant for not taking animals into account, creating a new type of construct, speciesism, one might critique me, and say that we cannot enforce our own moralities on different types of animals, or institutions, for our own selfish desires of survival. Based on my argument, governments should be the ones who regulate farm and produce, and agriculture and farmers should be under direct command of the government. That honestly might work, though the idea is unfleshed out. However, it makes me wonder about how we can enforce a good government, if one ever is created. Should we listen to the police? Or farmers? I think, yes, as long as they bring about a direct rule of what the government says, the law: however, even here, because of my arguments about truth, this argument might fall apart if one claims that there could be a mix-up of interpretation. Well, we can go beyond what I wrote for this, to synthesize the idea of checks and balances, to resolve this issue. Or, we could attack the foundation of Democracy itself. Or any government that does not impose the will of one person over the will of the people. I do not want to propose a resolution to these questions, I just want to raise them to say I admit I could be wrong, it is actually one of my assertions. But still, taking what I wrote into account, and trying to dissect it and apply it to other cases is a good use of your time, because no matter what, it will still teach you something. Trust me, I would like that last sentence to be a promotion of why you should have read my paper, but even then, this is just one piece of literature among many. And it has no real backing apart from the shoulders of other philosophers who have said similar things. So, do with this as you may, but remember that now that I wrote this paper, it is still part of reality, so based on my own premises, you should care about it. That statement, in a way, answers the question of knowledge I proposed: we do not need to know everything, just know that we should try to know everything, and be okay where we fail, allow others to pick up the slack, while trying to uncover more, and reflect on the fact that we might never know anything for certain, depending on how you think. Inference also is quite important, not to mix up with assumptions, which I’ll talk about one second. Also, knowing when to let information go to preserve order, which may, or may not, be necessary, is important as well. That, I do not have an answer to. Well, I do. I probably shouldn’t include this in the essay, but I am to illustrate the point of what might not fit. This point does not make sense in the context of the paragraph, it is a blatant obtrusion to flow, and it feels quite random. Just know, there are many things under the surface of this text that I will have changed, or not answered properly, which means that other people and authors do it too. We are always playing a guessing game.
On the topic of knowledge, and included information, I did not include equal amounts of information on Palestine and Israel. As a Jew, I know more of Israel than Palestine, and frankly I was more inclined to talk about my own people – a point that relates to many other statements I have made about tribalism, and emotional attachment, in this essay. However, I feel quite ashamed I did not include more, or dig up more history, because it would have made the essay more whole. However, because of time constraints in writing this, and a lack of motivation, I did not include as much as I hoped. However, that does not make my argument less invalid, it just makes it less comprehensive, which means that its logic may falter slightly because of a lack of information I had that other people might. But in the end, the point of the essay was not about equality, it was about making the point that many people will do what I did in this essay, and not even point it out, or be self-aware. We have to be self-aware, and then adjust our mistakes. I sadly did not have time to, but when I edit this essay in the future, my knowledge of Palestine will be increased. Also, this does not go to say I didn’t study Palestine at all, or try to understand the region. I do know a lot. There is just a slight bias in my feelings toward both Palestine and Israel, because of who I connect to; there are also biases I know people feel toward me for my culture and religion, for what political classification they propose I am in, for the way my points don’t make a direct conclusion, or connection, always (though I try to fix that). I am aware of the many things I might do wrong – I am proposing that you do not criticize that aspect of my argument, or what I did not include (because other people have included what I have not, and many others have said things I have also said). The only thing different about this piece than other philosophers, is that I synthesized all the information differently, and in a different order, and had different foundations of understanding that are useful to uncover. Criticize (implying a negative connotation) when and where in my essay that I impose my belief on others. Don’t criticize my logic, just point out where I may not be correct by your standards to allow other readers and avid learners to understand how to look at what I wrote in a better way.
When I wrote this essay, I made many large assumptions. The first one being that I had no legitimacy to express these ideas in the first place, but I believe I already covered that assumption. In line with assumptions, I made some prejudices based on emotional attachment to my people, and tensions sown around the world; I believe I resolved those issues as well. But I’ll restate it: as long as I don’t force anyone to believe my ideas, none of which demeaned a people or hated them (which in itself forces ideas upon others because of the concepts attached to judgement), they are okay to have. I can go through my essay, and say that I made assumptions about how I used the word “aggressive,” that I did not define it; I can say that about many other words. And there are many things I did fix, and will fix later. So, most of my essay will be clear, but I have left some things unanswered. My lack of using a definition for aggressive (and some other words) could make the essay hard to follow, or leave some questions (on degree, or foundational understanding) unanswered. However, I leave many questions unanswered in this essay, for the very purpose I don’t want to enforce what I think too much on you, but allow you to infer what you think I may think, and come away with conclusions of what you think I may have thought – and conclusions of your own. Filling in the holes yourself will lead you to reach new levels of knowledge. At first, I did not even leave the word “aggressive” undefined on purpose, I actually made the concept up while writing this paragraph. That goes to show, there is a different ability to grasp depth, understanding, clarity, structure, and strength of an argument not necessarily related to time, but related to an ingraining of the idea in your soul, and how much you believe it. I believe what I wrote here to an extent, but I will change what I think, and continue to change it, because that is who I am. I am constantly evolving, devolving, and then surging past my own confined limits. I share this with you because I think if more people live this way, the better for everyone: of course, that is another assumption, but you know what I say about assumptions by now. You know what I think of criticism. You know that it is all for development, to overcome the religions that dominate our world (and it is okay to reuse their labels).
The reason I want to overcome these religions is because of the religions that have plagued me since birth. The religions that in turn taught me to overcome them. Those religions are the strict code of my parents. The strict code I had to learn to balance on like it was a thin wire stretched between the twin towers (rest in peace). My parents always disagreed on how to raise me. Both my parents had internal laws that conflicted. My dad exposed me to screens early on; at the same time, my dad wanted me to learn as much as possible, without falling victim to “loser-ism.” I thought his definitions contradicted each other, but then I realized he just thinks differently then me, and to him watching a show and then doing math homework can mean one is working hard, though I did not at once. Things can contradict, but they can also balance. I also learned that from the external laws of my mom and dad that conflicted. My mom yelled at my dad whenever he thought I should watch television; she made me think I had a neurodiversity, when he opposed it; she treated me tenderly, while he did not. All of these things, a lot of her predetermined understandings of the world opposed my dads, which left me wondering if there was anything absolute in this world, any rule I could hold on to, any morality to ground me. But there wasn’t, which left me ungrounded. But in the end, I realized that it wasn’t about truth, or which parent was right, but being able to balance how they different, and know that their foundational understandings varied, but that they still both loved me, and wanted me to evolve. One more concrete example of this complex dynamic, my dad and mom both thought differently about working hard, and maintaining structure, though they both agreed sleep, health, nutrition, academics, socialization, and exercise were all important to my growth. So, I tore myself apart for not working hard enough, or not doing things that fulfilled both standards. But I do not have to fulfill standards anymore, I just have to live growing myself in the way my parents intended me to grow. Both Israel and Palestine have to recognize what I did. They are mom and dad of warring people, paralleling the warring inner voices of my adolescent psyche. There people have to stop letting the government cause such chaos, oppression, and violence (and stop allowing their parents to influence what their friends think about them), and instead fulfill the promises of both of their people. To bring peace, and stability, which can not happen individually, just affecting one side of the people. Both peoples have to live in harmony, in a single unit as I said, because mom and dad, even if divorced, still deserved to both be loved. That is the only way a child can find peace. Do you agree, or disagree?


Bibliography

Arendt, Hannah. Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil. Penguin Random House, 2006.
Braun, Robert. “The Holocaust and Problems of Historical Representation.” History and Theory 33, no. 2 (1994): 172–97. https://doi.org/10.2307/2505383.
Card, Claudia. “Women, Evil, and Gray Zones.” Metaphilosophy 31, no. 5 (2000): 509–528. https://doi.org/10.1111/1467-9973.00166.
Center for Israel Education. “1958–2018 – Israel’s Basic Laws.” CIE – Explore & Learn. Accessed September 1, 2025. http://israeled.org/israels-basic-laws/.
Chua, Amy. Political Tribes: Group Instinct and the Fate of Nations. New York: Penguin Press, 2018.
Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression. “John Stuart Mill’s Enduring Arguments for Free Speech.” June 14, 2024. Accessed September 1, 2025. The Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression (FIRE). https://www.thefire.org/research-learn/john-stuart-mills-enduring-arguments-free-speech.
Gordis, Daniel. Israel: A Concise History of a Nation Reborn. 1st ed. New York: Ecco, 2016.
Haidt, Jonathan. The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion. New York: Pantheon, 2012.
Khalidi, Rashid. The Hundred Years' War on Palestine: A History of Settler Colonialism and Resistance, 1917–2017. New York: Metropolitan Books, 2020.
Klein Halevi, Yossi. Letters to My Palestinian Neighbor. New York: Harper, 2018.
Moody-Adams, Michele M. “Culture, Responsibility, and Affected Ignorance.” Ethics 104, no. 2 (January 1994): 291–309. https://www.jstor.org/stable/2381578.
Palestinian BDS National Committee. n.d.-a. “ISRAELI SETTLER COLONIALISM AND APARTHEID.” BDS Movement. Accessed September 1, 2025. https://bdsmovement.net/colonialism-and-apartheid.
Sen, Amartya. “Positional Objectivity.” Philosophy & Public Affairs 22, no. 2 (1993): 126–45. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265443.
Tishby, Noa. Israel: A Simple Guide to the Most Misunderstood Country on Earth. New York: Free Press, 2021.
United Nations General Assembly. “Draft Resolution A/ES-10/L.25 (Protection of Civilians and Upholding Legal and Humanitarian Obligations).” Draft resolution, October 26, 2023. https://docs.un.org/en/A/ES-10/L.25.
United States Government. “Hamas.” National Counterterrorism Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Accessed September 1, 2025. https://www.dni.gov/nctc/terrorist_groups/hamas.html.
Walzer, Michael. “The Problem of Dirty Hands.” Philosophy & Public Affairs 2, no. 2 (1973): 160–180. http://www.jstor.org/stable/2265139.
Young, Iris Marion. “Responsibility and Global Justice: A Social Connection Model.” Social Philosophy and Policy 23, no. 1 (2006): 102–130. https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/social-philosophy-and-policy/article/abs/responsibility-and-global-justice-a-social-connection-model/9308EE478561C7CE31E1F5A8F26CBE04.